Property Companies For Sale Close This Window The properties shown in the following list are all owned by individual UK Limited Companies and are offered for Sale as part of the company. This method of purchase has the advantage of saving the Purchaser the 7% Transfer Tax in Spain. The company can be purchased using a UK Sale and Purchase Agreement and the legal transaction can be handled by the Purchaser’s UK Lawyers. The company will be sold to the Purchaser fully warranted, unlike a property purchase in Spain via a Spanish Notary which carries no warranty. The company purchase method is both simple and safe and if a mortgage is already in place the Purchaser can retain the benefit of that mortgage without any legal fees in respect of the transfer as a mortgage in Spain is attached to the property. Please take the time to review the properties offered for sale by our clients and we will be pleased to take further enquires, arrange viewings or submit offers in respect of any property Note: Please click on the View Details to view the description of the Property. Image Details Sangria Property Limited, Calpe £42,500 Offered for Sale is Studio Apartment 305 in the Apart Hotel Galetamar located in Calpe, on the Costa Blanca, Spain. Apartments are fully serviced and can be used for Private Accommodation and can be rented out as part of the Hotel Letting Pool. All Management of the Apartments is provided by a well run Hotel Management Team. The properties are individually owned by UK Limited Companies so there will be no Spanish Taxes payable on acquisition by the Purchaser. The Purchaser wi ...... View Details Sierra Berneja Limited, Calpe £40,000 Offered for Sale is Studio Apartment 207 in the Apart Hotel Galetamar located in Calpe, on the Costa Blanca, Spain. Apartments are fully serviced and can be used for Private Accommodation and can be rented out as part of the Hotel Letting Pool. All Management of the Apartments is provided by a well run Hotel Management Team. The properties are individually owned by UK Limited Companies so there will be no Spanish Taxes payable on acquisition by the Purchaser. The Purchaser wi ...... View Details &copy;Wincham Investments Limited