Wincham International Limited :: News Updates &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Simple, Intelligent, Professional Services Home About Us Services Accountancy UK &amp; Spanish Properties Wills &amp; Probate Spanish Inheritance Tax Currency Exchange Corporate Services Debt collection services User Login Meet The Team Contact Us News Updates &nbsp; Capital Gains Tax Hike Spanish Taxes on the Increase The Spanish Property Inheritance Tax Ticking Time Bomb Spanish Wills will not protect you from Spanish IHT Capital Gains Tax Hike Just announced - a second hike in the Capital Gains Tax (CGT) levied on non-residents in as many years. From January the 1st 2012 CGT for non-resident property owners in Spain will stand at 21% across the board. This follows a previous rise in 2010 from 18% to 19%. In 2007 the European Union put pressure on Spain to lower the then CGT rate of 35% for non residents (15% for residents) to 18% - deeming it to be an unfair penalty on non-residents. A rise of 1% in 2010 passed relatively unnoticed but shows a worrying trend towards accelerating tax increases to boost the dwindling economy. Spanish Residents will also feel the sting with figures rising to 21% up to 6000&euro;, 25% between 6001&euro; and 24000&euro; and 27% on higher figures. Call us now for further information on this and other tax changes and how we can help you save money. Spanish Taxes on the Increase Wincham has received almost 1500 enquires in the past 12 months from owners of Spanish property who are concerned about Spanish Inheritance and Taxes in Spain. Over 95% of these owners have spoken with one of our Spanish Tax Consultants and have received our free illustration and proposal demonstrating the potential Spanish Inheritance Taxes they or their Beneficiaries will face upon death. Within our proposal we supply details of the process and of owning a property in Spain in a UK Limited Company structure which help avoid Taxes in Spain. Many of our clients tell us that they have been advised by other professionals that Spanish taxation is likely to decrease in coming years and that Inheritance Tax should not be an issue. However, this may not be the case, as the new Spanish Government try to bring financial stability to the Country. Capital Gains Tax (CGT) From January the 1st 2012 CGT for non-resident property owners in Spain will stand at 21% across the board. This follows a previous rise in 2010 from 18% to 19%. In 2007 the European Union put pressure on Spain to lower the CGT rate of 35% for non- residents (15% for residents) to 18% - deeming it to be an unfair penalty on non-residents. A subsequent rise of 1% in 2010 passed relatively unnoticed but it is now followed by a further 2% increase. Spanish Residents will also feel the sting with CGT figures rising to 21% up to 6000&euro;, 25% between 6001&euro; and 24,000&euro; and 27% on higher figures. It is very important not to confuse CGT with Inheritance Tax as many people do. CGT is payable on profit made from the sale of assets. Inheritance Tax in Spain is paid by the Beneficiaries of a property on death of an owner. It should be further noted that UK Residents are obliged to submit a tax return in respect of CGT to HMRC. The current CGT rate in the UK is 28%. Relief against this tax can be claimed in respect of taxes paid in Spain as long as a suitable certificate from the Hacienda (Spanish Tax Office) has been received. The 3% retention retained by the buyer on sale cannot be claimed as relief from UK CGT. A further potential liability to a UK resident is the capital gain incurred in respect of the exchange rate gain made by the seller. This is calculated based on the exchange rate when the property was purchased against when the property was sold. This can create a CGT liability in the UK, even if the property was sold in Spain without a profit. Wealth Tax Reintroduced Wealth Tax is usually charged as part of the annual tax declaration which is submitted by all residents and non-residents of Spain. This is based on the value of your assets held in Spain. Although it had been reduced to zero for a number of years it was reintroduced in late 2011 and will begin to affect those with assets in excess of &euro;700,000.00. Non Resident Income Tax Increased From January 2012 Income Tax charged to Non-Resident property owners on the rent they collect in Spain has been increased from 24% to 24.75%. Spanish Resident Income Tax Increased Not only are non-residents being taxed higher in Spain but Spanish Resident Income Tax has already increased in 2012 for Higher Rate Tax payers which has risen from 45% to 52%. Contact Wincham for Help &amp; Advice If you would like to understand your Tax implications in Spain and receive our free Spanish Inheritance Tax illustration then please contact one of our Consultants on +44 (0)1260 299 700 (UK) or 0034 965 830 991 (Spain) or visit our website www.winchamiht.com . Our Consultants can also explain some of the other benefits of moving your property into a UK Company today. With Spanish taxation on the increase there are many benefits to restructuring your assets now, saving you and your beneficiaries, money in the future. The Spanish Property Inheritance Tax Ticking Time Bomb Inheritance Tax may be payable in two jurisdictions by owners of Spanish Property - Spain and the UK. In Spain it is the person who is inheriting the property that is taxed whereas in the UK it is the estate that is taxed. This means that on the death of an owner of a Spanish property, the surviving Spouse and/or any other Beneficiaries will need to probate the Estate in both Spain and the UK. Inheritance tax laws in Spain provide that immovable assets such as property cannot be realised in order to pay the inheritance taxes due. Common Misconceptions: 1. A Spanish Will negates the problem Incorrect – a Spanish will can often complicate matters as it may conflict with an earlier Will prepared in the UK. A Spanish Will cannot be varied after death and therefore limits the options of the beneficiaries. If there is only a UK Will then with agreement of the beneficiaries the Will can be varied to accommodate the inheritors wishes. The only requirement of the Spanish authorities is to be presented with a death certificate and letters of administration from the UK, translated, notorised and apostiled. 2. Double taxation treaties between Spain and the UK will help with the tax being reduced. While this is true in respect of identical taxes, Inheritance Tax is not subject to this rule due to two different entities being the subject of the Tax. In the UK it is the estate which is taxed and in Spain it is the beneficiaries who are taxed meaning that one tax cannot necessarily be offset against the other. Unilateral relief is potentially available in the UK but is complicated to establish and may only allow a small percentage of the taxes paid in Spain to be offset against UK inheritance tax. 3. Re-financing the property will avoid IHT. If there is a mortgage on the property (Hipoteca) and a loan subject to that mortgage then effectively the property owner does not own that part of the property subject to the loan. Therefore inheritance tax is only payable on the net value inherited. Of course it may be that the bank have an insurance policy assigned to them which will clear the loan on death. This means the full value of the property will be inherited and full tax payable. The alternative would be that the beneficiaries have a loan on the property on which the payments will need to be maintained and the borrowing ultimately settled by the executor of the estate. 4. Joint ownership of the property with your children/beneficiary means they do not need to pay IHT. Passing ownership of your property to your inheritors has many complications, and one has to consider the implications in respect of gift tax, transfer tax and capital gains tax in both the UK and Spain. Furthermore it is not advisable to dispose of your assets until you have completely finished using the benefit. If you transfer part of the asset probate will still be required on any balance you retain. A second complication of using this tactic is that the asset could be at risk should there be a marital or financial issue with one of your co owners and of course it is always possible that a son or daughter could predecease their parents which would mean the parents would be at risk of losing control of part of their asset depending on the Will or marital status of the deceased person. Wincham Consultants offers owners or prospective buyers of Spanish property legal and Taxation advice to structure the ownership of their Spanish property to significantly limit themselves and their Beneficiaries from Spanish inheritance tax liabilities and avoid acquiring an illegal or encumbered property. Whether you currently own a property in Spain, are about to purchase one or own the property in an offshore or Spanish SL Company, Wincham Consultants have a solution and method to help to transfer your property into a UK Limited Company to avoid Inheritance Tax in Spain. Not only have Wincham, market leaders in the provision of Consultancy Services in respect of corporate ownership of Spanish property, been operating in Spain for almost 20 years, but we own a portfolio of properties using the UK Company structure which we advocate our Clients use. Our team of qualified professionals includes UK Lawyers, Tax Consultants, Chartered Accountants, Gestores (Qualified legal Assistants), Economistas, Abogados, (Spanish Lawyers) and Notary Public. Offering a full legal service in the UK and Spain, specialising in property, Wills, probate and company sale and purchase we also provide – Taxation services – advising clients on income tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax and purchase tax in both Spain and the UK. Accountancy services – providing corporate clients book keeping, final account preparation and the submission to both HMRC and the Spanish hacienda where applicable. We are also able to provide personal Taxation services in both the UK and Spain Company secretarial services – to include the provision of registered office, the filing of annual returns, maintaining statutory books, dealing with share transfers and company formations. Debt collection services – this is a specialist service available to the mangers of Spanish apartment blocks where there is a requirement to collect unpaid community fees, from UK owners of Spanish properties. FX (Foreign Exchange) services – the company provides a highly competitive FX service from Sterling to Euros and Euros to Sterling. No commissions are charged and the company offers highly competitive corporate rates to all our Clients. The company holds a money laundering licence issued by HMRC and Professional Indemnity Insurance. Priding ourselves on a professional, friendly and informative service, you will always receive communications in your native language wherever possible and undertake to respond to enquiries in a prompt and courteous manner Contact Wincham for Help &amp; Advice If you would like to understand your Tax implications in Spain and receive our free Spanish Inheritance Tax illustration then please contact one of our Consultants on +44 (0)1260 299 700 (UK) or 0034 965 830 991 (Spain) or visit our website www.winchamiht.com . Our Consultants can also explain some of the other benefits of moving your property into a UK Company today. With Spanish taxation on the increase there are many benefits to restructuring your assets now, saving you and your beneficiaries, money in the future. Providing solutions to your problems. Spanish Wills will not protect you from Spanish IHT Non-residents purchasing properties in Spain are often urged to set up a Spanish Will in the belief this will shield them from Spanish IHT. This is unfortunately untrue and a Spanish Will can often complicate matters as it may conflict with an earlier Will prepared in the UK. A Spanish Will cannot be varied after death and therefore limits the options of the beneficiaries. If there is only a UK Will then with agreement of the beneficiaries the Will can be varied to accommodate the inheritor’s wishes. The only requirement of the Spanish authorities is to be presented with a death certificate and Grant of Probabte from the UK, translated, notorised and apostiled. A Spanish Will is registered in a central location in Madrid and once it has been registered you cannot proceed to change it without going through the process of cancelling the old one through the Notary that dealt with your original Will. This can be time consuming and very costly. In the UK if you wish to change your Will you simply write a new one stating that the old one is revoked. In order to obtain a Spanish Probate you will require an Abogado (Spanish lawyer) and beneficiaries will be liable to pay any inheritance tax personally. Unlike the UK the inheritance tax is paid by the individual beneficiary based upon their circumstances not by the Estate. Inheritance tax laws in Spain provide that immovable assets such as property cannot be realised in order to pay the inheritance taxes due. If you are married or you have a joint account in Spain then it means that your Spouse or joint account holder will be unable to access funds in that account until probate has been completed in Spain. This often leaves them in the position of being unable to make funeral arrangements or return to the UK as they do not have access to their funds. To deal with the sale of the property or to arrange for the transfer into their own names each beneficiary will need to attend Spain personally to obtain an NIE number and deal with Notaries and Spanish authorities often in a country that they are not familiar with. We can assist with every step and guide you through the whole process with the assistance of our multi-lingual staff based in our Spanish office. The Wincham Executor &amp; Trustee Company Ltd provides a professional Will writing service for new and existing clients. Our legal department has all the expertise you need to prepare a Will that is suitable and fit for the purpose. We also offer an Executor service to help with Probate and the form filling and bureaucracy involved when an individual passes away. You and your family can continue to enjoy the future in the knowledge that all your affairs are completely taken care of. You can buy cheaper on the web, but we do not recommend these. Estates are too important to have everything reduced to a simple and standard common denominator, and a Will intended as a catchall may not catch anything if individual circumstances are not established and properly catered for in the Will. A Will is an important document and can affect people’s lives. Wincham Executor &amp; Trustee Company Limited provide a bespoke Will service which supplies a considered and appropriate tailor made Will prepared at an affordable price. You may think you know what you need in a Will, but the help and advice offered by Wincham quite often leads to clients re-appraising their Wills. The most important part of the process is the estate planning as work may need to be undertaken now to provide the best outcome later and you cannot always rely on the contents of the Will. Visit us at www.winchamwills.com or call /email us on - Phone: +44 (0)1260 299 700 Email: teressa.McDonald@winchamiht.com --> User Login Login Email: Password: Login Forgotten Password Not Registered? Enquiry Form Full Name: Email: Contact Number: Service: Accountancy UK &amp; Spanish Properties Wills &amp; Probate Spanish Inheritance Tax Currency Exchange Corporate Services Community Debt Collection Enquiry: Yes No Submit --> /rightboxes --> [ X ] Close Forgotten Password Please enter your registered email address to receive a password reminder. An email will be sent to you immediately containing your password. Login Email: Submit Our Partner Network | --> Contact Us | Terms and Conditions | Privacy Statement | Site Map Wincham International Limited &copy;2012 UK Office Address: Wincham House | Greenfield Farm Trading Estate | Congleton | Cheshire | CW12 4TR UK Tel: +44 (0)1260 299 700 | UK Fax: +44 (0)1260 281 260 | Email: info@wincham.com Wincham International is a subsidiary of Wincham Investments who are members of the Association of International Property Professionals. Spain Office Address : Avda Masnou 6 | Calpe, 03710 | Alicante | Spain Spain Tel: 0034 965 830 991 | Spain Fax: 0034 965 830 482 | Email: info@wincham.com tag -->