Clients Comments :: Wincham Consultants Limited Enquiry Form (fields marked with * are required) * * * * * Submit &nbsp;&nbsp; * = mandatory field Spanish Inheritance Tax Yes No Enquiry Form FAQ &nbsp; |--> &nbsp; Login &nbsp; | &nbsp; Register &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Menu Home About Who We Are FAQs --> Meet The Team Clients Comments Press Releases Problem Solution Our Solution Wincham Process Benefits Fees &amp; costs Our Team Contact Clients Comments "I am writing to express my thanks for your patience and hard work in assisting me through our UK Limited Company and with the purchase of my Villa. I have been impressed with your professionalism, patience and offer to use your Clients' bank account which helped to put some life into the Spanish Solicitors and Bank. This morning the Bank gave my UK Company an account number and Barclay's put the necessary funds into the account by lunchtime. Completion is arranged for Monday morning. I intend to use the Wincham InterPay services to organize Direct Debits and other charges and will leave the Company bank account dormant until you advise me of the timing to close the account if possible. I am now a Wincham Enthusiast and there are two other Spanish property Owners I have in mind to refer to you at the right time'' With Kind Regards, Mr C.W. - Owner in La Manga, Murcia "I have been very impressed by the professional way that Wincham and all of your staff handled the procedures of placing my two Spanish properties into a UK Limited Company on my behalf. I attended the Notary in person on the day of signing, and found the procedure was explained to me very thoroughly by Malcolm Roach, and also your Spanish Lawyer. All of your staff both in Spain and the UK have been extremely helpful, and I know that I will be using your services in future for updating my Will, and any other services which I think may be helpful to me.Thank you again." Susanne Kemp - Owner in Los Alcazares, Murcia, Spain "Soon after we purchased a large property in Andalucia we realised that the potential income and inheritance tax liabilities were much more onerous than we had originally been led to believe by our advisers. We therefore hired Wincham to help us move the property into a UK Limited Company. The process went quite smoothly and the people at Wincham were very helpful and personable. I would strongly recommend any property owner in Spain to do what we have done, regardless of whether or not they live in the property. If you are renting out the property, the payback in tax savings is very rapid." Richard &amp; Linda Harpum, Owners in Orgiva, Granada, Spain "I discovered Wincham quite accidentally when on-line, after several frustrating years trying to comprehend the complex Spanish regional and state tax system; the conflicting advice received from accountants, lawyers and financial advisor's, coupled with exaggerated articles in the press. Reluctant to contact yet another firm of advisor's, after my initial chat with Mark Roach, I was delighted and relieved. I realised immediately that at long last, I had finally found a company that understood fully, both the English and Spanish systems, and the somewhat vulnerable position of the British expatriate abroad. Mark went to great lengths to understand our Spanish (SL) company situation and talk directly with my co-directors/shareholders to ensure we were all happy with his solution. At the time of writing there are just a few loose ends to tie up but the main objective has been achieved without fuss and with minimal effort on our part, to a tight time schedule. Any thoughts I had that their overall fee was on the high side have been dispelled when I take into account the tax savings and all the extra effort that has been made by Wincham staff in both Spain and UK to ensure we fully understood the procedures. Particular praise should go to those who developed their website where all documents are accessible immediately and accounting data uploaded. Wincham provides a comprehensive service including legal and accounting services in the UK &amp; Spain which makes the handling of personal affairs stress free and for me at least, allowing more time to relax, enjoy retirement and the most vital of all, to go sailing! " Julia Aspin, Owner in Girona, Cataluyna, Spain "Prior to making a final decision Wincham displayed considerable patience in answering our various questions and at the same time offered guidance without putting us under any pressure to decide. Once our decision was made the actual transfer of the property into the UK Company and signing process went through quickly and without any major problems. In our view the whole process was handled professionally and with efficiency. Spain being Spain took longer than we would have liked to switch the payment of all our bills to the new Company bank account, however this has now all been completed. People all have different circumstances and this IHT arrangement may not suit everyone but given the way our finances are structured we feel the right decision has been made. We also had the benefit of using the Wincham Will services too." Val &amp; Ken Marshall - Owners in Moraira, Costa Blanca, Spain Dear Mark, I would like to thank you very much for the great service that my Wife and I have experienced from your good self and from all the people who work for Wincham. We have found that since we first saw the advertisement explaining the benefits of the services you were in a position to offer in particular to owners of property in Spain, that any matters raised by us have been answered promptly and efficiently and dealt with to our satisfaction. We feel certain that this happy state of affairs will continue while we own the UK Limited Company as a vehicle to hold our property in Spain. Phyllis &amp; Neil Cuming - Owners in Moraira, Costa Blanca, Spain "In my search for a retirement property I travelled to Italy, Portugal and multiple times to Spain. I remained unsatisfied until by some fortuitous stroke of good luck I encountered and sought the help of Wincham. Travelling up and down the Costa Blanca, at times with, and at times without Wincham companions, I finally located an ideal property. The purchase arrangements which saved both myself and the seller a sufficient amount to place the purchase within my budget is absolutely attributable to the nature of their UK Limited Company purchase scheme, and their patient experienced negotiating skills. On a scale of 10, I would award Wincham a 10+." Dr. Sam Noumoff, Canada - Owner in Benissa, Costa Blanca, Spain Dear Mark, I just wanted to say, now that the transfer of our property into the UK Company is finished, how impressed I have been by the way it has been handled. The whole process is obviously quite complicated but it has been dealt with extremely well from start to finish. Any time I have been unsure about anything I have contacted Wincham and you have dealt with my enquiry in a very correct manner, giving advice where necessary in an easy to understand way. Overall I am happy to have gone through the process with yourselves and would not hesitate to recommend your services to other people. On behalf of Val and myself, Thank you. Tony &amp; Val Dovey - Owners in Moraira, Costa Blanca, Spain Dear Malcolm and Cindy, Terry and I would like to thank you both for all the help and assistance you gave us, without you both we would have been well and truly up the creek without a paddle. You guided us every step of the way and without you we would not be the proud owners of our lovely Duplex in Calpe. We would strongly advise others like us to ask for your help and advice as nothing seems too much for both of you. So once again Thank You! Yours sincerely Ann and Terry Murfitt, UK Owners in Calpe, Costa Blanca, Spain "Wincham handle everything with great efficiency and professionalism. The staff are very helpful and always answer any queries promptly and with great clarity. The UK Limited Company ownership service to avoid taxation in Spain is excellent and suits our requirements." Mr and Mrs Ramsay - Owners in Marbella, Costa del Sol and La Torre Golf Resort, Murcia, Spain "I own a property in Marbella and had concerns regarding IHT both in the UK and Spain and in 2008 I approached Wincham after reading an article on the internet reference Spanish Inheritance Tax. Their advice and recommendation as to how I could resolve this situation was easy to understand and simple to execute. Early 2009 I took their advice and following a cost affective fee the arrangements to place my property into a UK Limited Company were made and after a short visit to our local Notary our problems were resolved. I would advise anyone with the same concerns to speak to Wincham." Alan Byrne, Owner in Peurto Banus, Marbella, Costa del Sol, Spain "My wife and I wanted to say how efficient, business-like and friendly we have found Wincham. We sought advice on the best way of holding our Spanish property principally with a view to protecting us from Spanish death taxes. Wincham fully explained the steps that needed to be taken and also very clearly set out the costs. They implemented the plan keeping us informed at every stage and stuck to budget even when additional questions arose. Following completion we are pleased to have appointed Wincham in an on-going administrative role of our UK Limited Company." Certainly from our perspective you did a good job and it is very good to see some glowing accounts which say a lot about the business. We continue to be impressed! Mr &amp; Mrs Osborne, Owners in Cadiz, Costa de la Luz, Spain "One of the main assets of Wincham, in particular, is how they approach getting the Spanish legal establishment to carry out arcane procedures without too much resistance. Their manner was always pleasant but business like and they explained in advance all the steps involved in the transaction and there were no long delays in completing the process. All the staff we dealt with were both knowledgeable and the contacts were approachable within the organisation, the on line case management system works well for updating along with email prompts and the system was very useful for document retrieval and may be so in the future." "Wincham is somewhat more structured in approach and could cope with customers having less familiarity with legal matters. I would recommend Wincham to others." John-David Matthews, Owner in Soller, Mallorca, Spain "Prior to our dealing with Wincham we were blissfully ignorant of the implications of IHT on our finances and our estate in Spain. We had a Fiscal Advisor in Spain (the solicitor who dealt with the purchase of our mainland property) and we had Spanish Wills set up, so we thought all was well." "We were sceptical at first and the more research we did on the subject of Spanish IHT the faster we came to the conclusion that we needed to do something about the issue. In addition we were not confident that our Spanish and English Wills were set up correctly, and they needed updating." "We sought the advice of professional couples in a similar position to ours and surprisingly another one of the couples were also considering Wincham as a solution. Although everyone thought this scheme was 'too good and simple' to be true, no-one could tell us why we should not proceed, or could see any flaws in the scheme. There were plenty of people who thought they had the solution, but research showed us they could be seriously mistaken." "We did have an experience first hand one day in our bank in Spain where a lady was in dispute with the bank regarding an account which had been frozen for more than a year due to the demise of her husband - after that we knew we had to take action." "Anyway we were not prepared to take any chances and went ahead with Wincham to place our 2 properties into a UK Limited Company structure where we would be the sole shareholders." "All our dealings with Wincham were carried out in a most professional manner and we took the trouble to visit their offices in Congleton, the UK and meet the staff and get our questions answered. All the fees were explained and there were no nasty surprises and we also took the opportunity to get Wincham to advise us on a redraft our English Wills once the operation was completed." "Everything went very smoothly and we have no reservations in recommending Wincham to anyone owning property in Spain. We are now completely at ease with the situation and it is a weight off of our minds. Thank you Wincham." Brian &amp; Julie Cue - Owners on the Orihuela Costa and also in La Gomera, Canary Islands. "Just over a year ago my Uncle who resided in Puerto De La Cruz passed away without having a fully completed Will and testimony in Spain and It was stated in a deed of wishes that I inherit his property. At this point the Spanish and UK inheritance tax were so great that it looked like I would have to sell the property to pay all the tax bills but luckily for me my Uncle had been recommended to Wincham." "It was at this stage that Wincham took over all the legal headaches and they kept me well informed at every stage of exactly what they were doing and guided me through the Spanish and UK legal system. They achieved an end result of 0% UK inheritance tax and only 1% Spanish Transfer tax. This has enabled me to keep the property in Tenerife and enjoy holidays for myself and my family for the foreseeable future. With very reasonable fees well informed advice I am very grateful to Wincham, as I could of lost everything." Nicky Malley - Owner in Pueto De La Cruz, Tenerife "May I once again thank you and everyone at Wincham for handling our affairs so efficiently and with great dignity, I will certainly be recommending your services to other property owners in Spain." David &amp; Jeannette Mortimer - Owners in Benijofar, Costa Blanca, Spain. Dear Paul, "We would like to thank you and your colleagues for all the work, help, guidance and patience. Thank you also for your promptness in regards to our deadline for when we returned to Spain." Sincere Regards Trevor Lightbown, Owner in Adsubia, Alicante, Spain Dear Phil, Thanks again for your great effort in organising the presentation for our club. We had 72 members present and most of them were very pleased with what was said by Malcolm, your M.D. We had so many people who wanted to ask questions but we over ran our time at the restaurant, something that only occurs when our members find the talk interesting and informative. Everyone who I spoke to afterwards said how much they enjoyed the presentation and wondered where I found such a knowledgeable company. If ever we need your services again I will not hesitate to contact you, Many thanks again. Pam &amp; Cyril Derbyshire, The No Smoking Club, Torrevieja, Costa Blanca, Spain Dear Wincham, On Wed 24th February 2010 Rachael Bayliss your Spanish Tax Consultant attended our Community, El Nautico Suites, Gulf de Sur, Tenerife and spoke to Owners on your IHT saving scheme. I was very impressed with her professional presentation and information presented. Her first class command of her subject and information presented was appreciated by all present. Many Owners expressed how helpful she was in explaining a very difficult subject. Once again many Thanks, Roger Butler, President El Nautico Suites, Tenerife. FOR YOUR FREE SPANISH INHERITANCE TAX ILLUSTRATION Please complete the following form --> Please wait... Mr Mrs Miss Ms Dr Sir Senor Senora *This is not a valid first name. *This field is required. *This is not a valid last name. *This field is required. *This is not a valid phone number. *This field is required. *This is not a valid mobile number. *This is not a valid email address. *This field is required. *How did you hear about us?. *This field is required. Spanish Inheritance Tax Yes No Clear Send Search Search --> Press Releases Press Releases - 1 Press Releases - 2 Press Releases - 3 Press Releases - 4 Press Releases - 5 Press Releases - 6 Press Releases - 7 Press Releases - 8 Press Releases - 9 Press Releases - 10 Archive November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 --> Contact Us | Terms and Conditions | Privacy Statement | Site Map --> --> Wincham Consultants Limited &copy2014; UK Office: Wincham House | Greenfield Farm Trading Estate | Congleton | Cheshire | CW12 4TR UK Tel: +44 (0)1260 299 700 | UK Fax: +44 (0)1260 281 260 | Email: info@wincham.com Wincham International Limited is a subsidiary of Wincham Investments Limited who are members of the Association of International Property Professionals. Alicante Office: Av. Ejercitos Espanoles 10 | Edificio Apolo VII | Calpe, 03710 | Alicante | Costa Blanca | Spain Spain Tel: 0034 965 830 991 | Spain Fax: 0034 965 838 832 | Email: info@wincham.com Marbella Office: Avda Ricardo Soriano 72 - Portal B - Planta 1a | Marbella, 29601 | Costa del Sol | Spain Spain Tel: 0034 965 830 991 | Spain Fax: 0034 965 838 832 | Email: info@wincham.com Wincham Investments Limited and its subsidiary companies are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) under registration number: &nbsp; 615817 HMRC Money Laundering Regulation Licence (MLR) number: &nbsp; 12606134 Data Protection Licence Number: &nbsp; Z1004980 tag -->