Property Companies 4 Sale Close This Window The properties shown in the following list are all owned by individual UK Limited Companies and are offered for Sale as part of the company. This method of purchase has the advantage of saving the Purchaser the 7% Transfer Tax in Spain. The company can be purchased using a UK Sale and Purchase Agreement and the legal transaction can be handled by the Purchaser’s UK Lawyers. The company will be sold to the Purchaser fully warranted, unlike a property purchase in Spain via a Spanish Notary which carries no warranty. The company purchase method is both simple and safe and if a mortgage is already in place the Purchaser can retain the benefit of that mortgage without any legal fees in respect of the transfer as a mortgage in Spain is attached to the property. Please take the time to review the properties offered for sale by our clients and we will be pleased to take further enquires, arrange viewings or submit offers in respect of any property Note: Please click on the View Details to view the description of the Property. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If you own a property in Spain via a UK Company structure then please click here to advertise your property for sale........ Image Details Sierra Berneja Limited, Calpe, Costa Blanca North £47,000 Offered for Sale is Studio Apartment 207 in the Apart Hotel Galetamar located in Calpe, on the Costa Blanca, Spain. Apartments are fully serviced and can be used for Private Accommodation and can be rented out as part of the Hotel Letting Pool. All Management of the Apartments is provided by a well run Hotel Management Team. The properties are individually owned by UK Limited Companies so there will be no Spanish Taxes payable on acquisition by the Purchaser. The Purchaser wi ...... View Details Puesta Del Sol Property Limited, Benijofar, Costa Blanca South €269,000 The property is owned by a UK Limited Company so there will be no Spanish Taxes payable on acquisition by the Purchaser. The Purchaser will be the Director of the company and will own the shares in the Company. ...... View Details Shaw Commercial Properties (IVE 15) Limited, Murcia €175,000 This rondella type detached bungalow is situated on a corner plot looking over large green area with palm trees and beautiful fountain. The property consists of lounge/dining area with high ceiling and patio doors leading to a large covered and garden, galley style kitchen, two double bedrooms with fitted wardrobes, one ensuite bathroom, one additional shower room - both fully tiled. Large rooftop solarium. ...... View Details Lanolla Limited, Mallorca €2,650,000 The property is situated in Port Andratx village, Mallorca. Pedro Otzoup designed Villa approx 33 years. Beautiful Pool and Terrace OVERLOOKING the Harbour / Port of Andratx. Lanolla Limited is a company registered in the UK. It is currently administered by Wincham Investments Ltd with a UK office at Congleton, Cheshire and a Spanish registered office at Calpe in Alicante Province. Ownership of the property is by a UK registered company to safeguard the owners fro ...... View Details Villabase Limited, Torre Del Mar, La Canuta Baja, Calpe, Costa Blanca, Calpe, Costa Blanca North €1,700,000 Opportunity has arisen to purchase this individually designed home known as the Roundhouse. Overlooking the lagoon of Puerto Blanco, Calpe, this property offers spacious, well maintained accommodation set in beautiful surroundings. The property is entered via double gates and affords parking for up to eight cars plus a car port suitable for a further two cars. In addition there is also a garage and workshop. Currently split into four Apartments, the accommodation in bri ...... View Details Augusta Cinco Developments Limited, Calpe, Costa Blanca North €174,500 Well appointed duplex apartment located in the popular Manzanera area of Calpe. Augusta Cinco Developments Limited is a company registered in the UK. It is currently administered by Wincham Investments Ltd with a UK office at Congleton, Cheshire and a Spanish registered office at Calpe in Alicante Province. Ownership of the property is by a UK registered company to safeguard the owners from Spanish Inheritance Tax and because taxes are paid in the UK, the properties own ...... View Details Country House Construction S.L., Cervera del Maestre €977,000 Golf and family holiday Villa Development Includes nearby development of eleven Spanish villas With swimming pool, bar and restaurant. This exclusive Leisure and holiday building project is for sale Ideal for Golf and Family Holidays Offering cheap golf and family holidays in Spain all year round Creating eventual and substantial renting income from cheap holiday golf and leisure activities Purchaser takes over existing Spanish S L development company to ...... View Details Bueno Property Limited, Malaga, Costa del Sol €200,000 Townhouse in small urbanisation of 25 houses. Shared pool in community gardens. ...... View Details Sangria Property Limited, Calpe, Costa Blanca North £48,000 Offered for Sale is Studio Apartment 305 in the Apart Hotel Galetamar located in Calpe, on the Costa Blanca, Spain. Apartments are fully serviced and can be used for Private Accommodation and can be rented out as part of the Hotel Letting Pool. All Management of the Apartments is provided by a well run Hotel Management Team. The properties are individually owned by UK Limited Companies so there will be no Spanish Taxes payable on acquisition by the Purchaser. The Purchaser wi ...... View Details Houses at Home Limited - Apartment, Murcia €90,000 Offered for Sale is this Apartment located in the La Torre Golf Resort, Murcia, Spain. Houses at Home Limited is a company registered in the UK. It is currently administered by Wincham Investments Ltd with a UK office at Congleton, Cheshire and a Spanish registered office at Calpe in Alicante Province. Ownership of the property is by a UK registered company to safeguard the owners from Spanish Inheritance Tax and because taxes are paid in the UK, the properties owned can b ...... View Details &nbsp; 1&nbsp; 2 &nbsp; next &gt;&gt; &copy;Wincham Investments Limited