About Wincham Property Shop +44(0)1260 299 700 0034 965 830 991 info@wincham.com Home Home 1 Home 2 Home 3 --> About Us For Sale Spanish Property for Sale Spanish Property Company for Sale Rent --> Contact Us Listings List Layout With Sidebar With Map Full Width Grid Layout Standard With Sidebar Compact With Sidebar With Map Full Width Half Map List Layout Grid Standard Layout Grid Compact Layout --> Log In Register --> Sell Your Property About Us The Wincham Property Shop Home About Us --> The Wincham Property Shop is a value for money solution when buying or selling Spanish property. Our sophisticated, and practical property platform, makes it easy for you when you are either buying or selling Spanish Property and is where consumers turn to and engage with, when searching and researching property in Spain. Taking the best traditional marketing methods and combining them with the latest technology, Wincham ensure we maximise every marketing opportunity for our clients. Not only does Wincham provide the most significant and effective exposure for customers properties, our Property Experts offer high value professional and extensive knowledge and advice. We recognise that every customer property requirement is different and this is why our experienced staff listen carefully so that we can deliver an excellent and precise bespoke service to help generate the results you wish to achieve. By providing a first class, unique service to each individual client. Wincham will put your needs first and keep you informed at every stage of the buying and selling process. Wincham pride themselves in providing a professional, friendly, and informative property finding service for over 23 years and are a market leader in helping clients purchase, own, and sell Spanish property either privately or within a UK Limited Company structure. With offices in the UK and Spain, our success is due to our service standard which revolves around our clients. To find out more about other property services Wincham supply including Tax solutions and Legal advice when buying, owning, or selling a Property in Spain please go to www.wincham.com We are proud that our traditional values and modern approach have led to so many of our customers recommending us to friends and family. Please click HERE to read what our clients have to say. Our extensive experience along with our unrivalled Spanish knowledge ensures that Wincham Property Shop is the number one choice for Buyers and Sellers. Whatever your property needs, Wincham are here to expertly and efficiently supply you with the best advice on all property matters in Spain. Got any questions? If you have any questions, please feel free to ask. Drop Us a Line &nbsp; Popular Posts What to Do a Year Before Buying Apartment November 9, 2016 Bedroom Colors You'll Never Regret November 9, 2016 8 Tips to Help You Finding New Home November 12, 2016 --> --> Wincham International Limited Wincham International Limited are members of the Association of International Property Professionals. Wincham and its subsidiary companies have (PI) Professional Indemnity Insurance and HMRC Money Laundering Regulation Licence. Wincham International Limited and its subsidiary companies are also regulated by the Data Protection Licence Number: ZA242318 Helpful Links Home Spanish Property for Sale Spanish Property Company for Sale Rent --> Sell Your Property About Us Login Register --> My Account --> Contact Privacy Policy Contact Us UK Office Address: Wincham House Greenfield Farm Trading Estate Congleton, Cheshire, CW12 4TR UK Tel: +44 (0)1260 299 700 UK Fax: +44 (0)1260 281 260 EMail: info@wincham.com Spain Office Address: Av. Ejercitos Espanoles 10 Edificio Apolo VII, Local 41 Calpe, 03710, Alicante Spain Tel: 0034 965 830 991 Spain Fax: 0034 965 835 557 EMail: info@wincham.com --> Contact Us &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &copy; 2017 Wincham International Limited. All Rights Reserved. Color Switcher -->