Wincham Property Shop :: Property Detail +44(0)1260 299 700 0034 965 830 991 info@wincham.com Home Home 1 Home 2 Home 3 --> About Us For Sale Spanish Property for Sale Spanish Property Company for Sale UK Property for Sale Rent --> Meet The Team Contact Us Listings List Layout With Sidebar With Map Full Width Grid Layout Standard With Sidebar Compact With Sidebar With Map Full Width Half Map List Layout Grid Standard Layout Grid Compact Layout --> Download APP Log In Register --> Sell Your Property Country House For Sale Alicante - Biar &nbsp;EUR&nbsp;825,000 Reduced Type Country House Bedroom(s) 9 Bathroom(s) 9 Plot Size 5105 sq m Build Size 330 sq m Description Property and Location: We are pleased to be able to offer you this Restored Rural Hotel in Alicante. Up until the beginning of the millennium, this 230 year old building served as a farm house, until it was lovingly restored and converted into this charming retreat. Nestling among mature Pine Trees on a 5,000m² plot the dwelling is only 4km from a small town, which offers all necessary amenities. It is also well connected to the motorway and the high speed rail connection in Villena is less than 15 minutes drive from the property. Distribution: During the restoration works great effort was made in preserving the original character of the building whilst still adding all of the modern comforts and facilities of a modern hotel. A few steps lead to the front door which opens into a sunny vestibule and reception area which leads to the restaurant with access to the garden and pool area. The interior walls are painted in a tasteful combination of Blue and Ochre whilst the earthen tones of the floor covering blend beautifully with the wooden beams to create a wonderfully relaxing ambience. During the winter season guests like to gather in the hotels high ceilinged drawing room, to enjoy the warming atmosphere created by the large wood burner. The renovated farmhouse sits on the edge of the private gardens which are bordered by centennial Mediterranean Pines. In this area is a large swimming pool with surrounding terraces and seating areas. Also strung between the tree trunks hammocks swing in the breeze and there is also a table tennis table and trampoline for improving balance and fitness. On the way back into the main building is also a courtyard garden surrounded by lush vegetation and old stone walls the ideal place just to sit and enjoy the sounds of the countryside. On the first and second floors are eight spacious rooms, six of which have pitched beamed ceilings , another has a private terrace and two others have a loft with extra bed. In a separate cottage there is also a ninth room which also has a loft and a large futon style bed. Summary: Apart from its own charm, the location of this property also makes it a very attractive opportunity for an Hotelier looking for a small manageable business in an expanding sector. The ancient building is the perfect base for exploring the surrounding mountains and local areas. Paths lead through the pine forests offering perfect routes for walkers, cyclists and horse riders also caving, rock climbing and orienteering are among the other popular sports in this area. If you would like more information about this unique opportunity contact us today to discuss things further. Proof of Funds is required before Viewings can be arranged. Show More Details Close to Town Popular Area Area of Natural Beauty Private Pool Private Garden Fenced and Gated Central Heating Balconies Terraces Various Lounge Areas Wi-Fi Off-Road Parking Wood Burner Climalit Windows Features Pool Central Heating Driveway Parking Space Garden Location Street View Print --> Need More Information 0034 965 830 991 +44(0)1260 299 700 info@wincham.com --> info@wincham.com I'm interested in this property [ID: WIN-234] and I'd like to know more details. Send Message yes no Featured Properties --> Featured For Sale Eagle Apartments $275,000 Area 530 sq ft Rooms 3 Beds 1 Baths 1 --> --> Wincham International Limited Wincham International Limited are members of the Association of International Property Professionals. Wincham and its subsidiary companies have (PI) Professional Indemnity Insurance and HMRC Money Laundering Regulation Licence. Wincham International Limited and its subsidiary companies are also regulated by the Data Protection Licence Number: ZA242318 Helpful Links Home Spanish Property for Sale Spanish Property Company for Sale Rent --> Sell Your Property Property Agent Login About Us Login Register --> My Account --> Meet The Team Contact Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Contact Us UK Office Address: Wincham House Greenfield Farm Trading Estate Congleton, Cheshire, CW12 4TR UK Tel: +44 (0)1260 299 700 Email: info@wincham.com Spain Office Address: Calpe, 03710, Alicante Spain Tel: 0034 965 830 991 Email: info@wincham.com --> Contact Us &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &copy; 2024 Wincham International Limited. All Rights Reserved. Color Switcher -->